# GitHub Markdown Examples

This doc serves as touch-and-feel proof of GitHub's take on Markdown formatting, which is very close to the original ATX-style but with some more demanding specifications.

Click "Raw" to see the raw Markdown text, and compare it to the relative URL generated by clicking the 🔗 next to a header in the rendered document.

These examples are directly from:

> https://github.github.com/gfm/#atx-heading

####### Too Long

More than six `#` characters is not a heading.

\## Escaped

This is not a heading, because the first `#` is escaped.

#                  foo      #

Leading and trailing blanks are ignored in parsing inline content:

 ### foo
  ## foo
   # foo

One to three spaces indentation are allowed.

    # foo

Four spaces are too much.

## foo ##
  ###   bar    ###

A closing sequence of # characters is optional.

# foo ##################################
##### foo ##

It need not be the same length as the opening sequence.

----

#5 bolt

#hashtag

At least one space is required between the `#` characters and the heading’s contents, unless the heading is empty. Note that many implementations currently do not require the space. However, the space was required by the original ATX implementation, and it helps prevent things like the following from being parsed as headings:

----

### foo ###       

Spaces are allowed after the closing sequence.

****
## foo
****

Foo bar
# baz
Bar foo

ATX headings need not be separated from surrounding content by blank lines, and they can interrupt paragraphs.

# foo#

The closing sequence must be preceded by a space.

### foo ### b

A sequence of # characters with anything but spaces following it is not a closing sequence, but counts as part of the contents of the heading:

----

### foo \###
## foo #\##
# foo \#

Backslash-escaped # characters do not count as part of the closing sequence:

## 
#
### ###

ATX headings can be empty.

----

What follows are some additional unusual examples not found in the GitHub spec. that related to character removal, replacement, or change-of-case.

#   Spaces     here ...     

becomes:

# THis is CAPS!!!

becomes:

## this is an l2 header

becomes:

### This is ... an L3 header??

becomes:

#### This is a Spicy Jalapeño Header! :)

becomes:

# Чемезов заявил об уничтожении поврежденных штормом ракет С-400 для Китая

becomes:

### This has (some parens) in it!!

becomes:

#### What About Dashes: -----  ##

becomes:
